# XML Signatures

*AKA XMLDsig, XML-DSig, XML-Sig*

SAML Assertions are signed by IdP, the signatures used are XML signatures.

## **\<signature>** tag

## Types of signatures
* **detached** = a signature that signs something in another XML document.
If so, a \<Reference> to a URI.
* **enveloped** = a signature that signs something in the same document.
Signature is child
* **enveloping** = a signature that signs something contained inside itself.
If so, stored in an \<Object> tag.
Signature is parent

~~~ xml
<Signature>
  <SignedInfo>
    <CanonicalizationMethod />
    <SignatureMethod />
    <Reference>
       <Transforms />
       <DigestMethod />
       <DigestValue />
    </Reference>
    <Reference /> etc.
  </SignedInfo>
  <SignatureValue />
  <KeyInfo />
  <Object />
</Signature>
~~~

## Quiz questions
1. Focus on **\<signature>** tag, different parts of it
2. Focus on enveloped, enveloping and detached signatures

*Note:* Have specification at hand when doing quiz

*Note:* Need 2/2 correct to pass

*Note:* In Q2, several answers may be right

---
# Quiz
(*Italics* means wrong, **Bold** means correct)
## What is true regarding XML signatures?
### Select one:
* *All signed data must be hashed using the same hash algorithm.*

* **It is possible to sign also JPG and PDF documents using XML signatures.**

* *When validating a signature on an XML document it is crucial that the document has not changed in any way.*

* *The digital signature is always asymmetric*. 

## Question 2 - What is true regarding enveloped, enveloping and detached XML signatures?
### Select one or more:
* *For detached signatures, the data to sign is always another document (or a part of another document).*

* **For enveloping signatures, the data to sign is typically embedded within the \<Object> tag**.

* *For detached signatures, the signature itself does not have to be in XML format.*

* *Only detached signatures have support for non-repudiation.*

* **For enveloped signatures, the data to sign is always in the same document as the signature.**
